docs(tutorials): backup PostgreSQL databases with pgBackRest to Object Storage (#666)
scaleway/docs-content: tutorials/backup-postgresql-pgbackrest-s3/index.mdx

---
meta:
  title: Backup PostgreSQL databases with pgBackRest to Object Storage
  description: How to install pgBackRest on Scaleway Instance for backing up PostgreSQL databases to Object Storage
content:
  h1: Backup PostgreSQL databases with pgBackRest to Object Storage
  paragraph: This page shows how to backup PostgreSQL databases with pgBackRest to Object Storage
tags: compute networking database sql postgresql pgbackrest backup buckets Object-Storage s3

> steps:

Author: Oh sorry. I didn't realised that. I will delete it. Thanks. :)

> steps:

Author: I deleted that part in 4c0ddd105ee0305be147ad18c2fae07aa8842989

> steps:

Author: > Hi, thanks for your tutorial ! There are some formatting things to correct so that it displays correctly, I've left comments/suggestions where necessary. Don't hesitate if you have any questions or problems.

Hi, thank you for the review and your time. :) I'm beginning to think that my tutorials cause more problems for you other than helping...

  - step: Setting up pgBackRest
    type: HowToStep
    url: https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/tutorials/setup-pgbackrest/#-Setting-up-pgBackRest
  - step: Setting up PostgreSQL
    type: HowToStep
    url: https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/tutorials/setup-pgbackrest/#-Setting-up-PostgreSQL
  - step: Performing backups
    type: HowToStep
    url: https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/tutorials/setup-pgbackrest/#-Performing-backups
  - step: Restoring from backups
    type: HowToStep
    url: https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/tutorials/setup-pgbackrest/#-Restoring-from-backups
  - step: Automatizing backups
    type: HowToStep
    url: https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/tutorials/setup-pgbackrest/#-Automatizing-backups
 - step: Deleting old backups manually
    type: HowToStep
    url: https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/tutorials/setup-pgbackrest/#-Deleting-old-backups-manually
categories:
  - tutorials
---

## pgBackRest Overview
pgBackRest aims to be a reliable, easy-to-use backup and restore solution that can seamlessly scale up to the largest databases and workloads by utilizing algorithms that are optimized for database-specific requirements.

pgBackRest can backup in three ways:

> - Full backup: It is a backup of every file under the database directory ($PGDATA). A full backup of a PostgreSQL server is required first. It is the only backup that pgBackRest can load by itself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Full backup: This is a backup of every file under the database directory ($PGDATA). A full backup of a PostgreSQL server is required first. It is the only backup that pgBackRest can load by itself.
```

> - Differential backup: It only retrieves files that have changed since the last full backup. Both the full backup and the differential backup must be intact.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Differential backup: This only retrieves files that have changed since the last full backup. Both the full backup and the differential backup must be intact.
```

> - Incremental backup: It retrieves files that have changed since the last backup. The last backup can be a full backup or a differential backup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Incremental backup: This retrieves files that have changed since the last backup. The last backup can be a full backup or a differential backup.
```

<Message type="requirement">

- You have an account and are logged into the Scaleway console.

> - You have created instances running a PostgreSQL database on Ubuntu/Debian or RHEL/Rocky Linux. -> https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/tutorials/back-up-postgresql-barman/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You have created Instances running a [PostgreSQL database](https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/tutorials/install-postgresql/) on Ubuntu/Debian or RHEL/Rocky Linux.
```

Reviewer: I'm not sure why there is the link to the barman tutorial - please feel free to reinstate it if there's a reason I'm not understanding! Also, if you could specify how many Instances are required that would be great.

Author: Oh sorry. I referenced the barman tutorial for styling the tutorial. I forgot to delete that part. My bad. :(

- You have sudo privileges or access to the root user.

> - You have created an Object Storage bucket -> https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/storage/object/how-to/upload-files-into-a-bucket

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You have [created an Object Storage bucket](https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/storage/object/how-to/upload-files-into-a-bucket)
```

    ```

2. Import the repository signing key:
    ```
    wget --quiet -O - https://www.postgresql.org/media/keys/ACCC4CF8.asc | apt-key add -
    ```

3. Update the package lists:
    ```
    apt update
    ```
4. Install the `pgbackrest` package
    ```
    apt install -y pgbackrest
    ```

For RHEL/Rocky Linux:
1. Install the repository RPM:
    ```
    dnf install -y https://download.postgresql.org/pub/repos/yum/reporpms/EL-9-x86_64/pgdg-redhat-repo-latest.noarch.rpm
    ```

2. Disable the built-in PostgreSQL module:
    ```
    dnf -qy module disable postgresql
    ```

3. Install the `pgbackrest` package
    ```
    dnf install -y pgbackrest
    ```

## Setting up pgBackRest

1. Edit the `/etc/pgbackrest.conf` with the following changes (repository configurations for example purposes only):
    ```
    [global]
    repo1-type=s3
    repo1-s3-endpoint=<BUCKET-ENDPOINT>
    repo1-s3-bucket=<BUCKET-NAME>
    repo1-s3-key=<ACCESS-KEY>
    repo1-s3-key-secret=<SECRET-KEY>
    repo1-s3-region=<REGION>
    repo1-path=/pgbackrest

    repo1-retention-full=1
    start-fast=y
    archive-async=y

    [db-primary]
    pg1-path=/var/lib/pgsql/14/data
    ```

<Message type="note">

> PostgreSQL data directory is '/var/lib/postgresql/14/main' in Ubuntu/Debian by default

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PostgreSQL data directory is `/var/lib/postgresql/14/main` in Ubuntu/Debian by default
```

</Message>

2. Create a stanza for defining the cluster:
    ```
    sudo -u postgres pgbackrest --stanza=db-primary stanza-create
    ```

## Setting up PostgreSQL

> 1. Change PostgreSQL configurations:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Edit the PostgreSQL configuration file `/etc/postgresql/14/main/postgresql.conf` as follows:
```

    ```
    archive_mode = on
    archive_command = 'pgbackrest --stanza=db-primary archive-push %p'
    ```

> <Message type="note">

Reviewer: You need to indent all the code for this message box and the one below, to avoid breaking the chain of numbered steps :-)

Author: Oh I saw that now. :( 

I believe I fixed it in b0316ece8f8d856c8ac51c793eea9cad0cbd8b27

Changing the archive_mode parameter requires a restart, but reload is sufficient if you are only changing the archive_command parameter.

</Message>

<Message type="note">

If you want WAL archiving to be done only during backup, you can add the following command:
    ```
    test -f /tmp/pgbackrest/db-primary-backup.lock || exit 0 && pgbackrest --stanza=db-primary archive-push %p
    ```
It is not a method supported by pgBackRest. Needs to be watched carefully.

</Message>

2. Restart PostgreSQL to apply changes:

For RHEL/Rocky Linux:

> Restart the `postgresql-14.service` to apply the changes.

Reviewer: Everything from "Restart" to the end of this step should be indented by one level to avoid breaking the numbered list :-)

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/36301604/174261378-c022765f-18ca-48fa-93c0-62efbffd3651.png)

Author: Thank you :)

I also fixed it in b0316ece8f8d856c8ac51c793eea9cad0cbd8b27

    ```
    systemctl restart postgresql-14
    ```

For Ubuntu/Debian:

Restart the PostgreSQL 14 `main` cluster to apply the changes.
    ```
    pg_ctlcluster restart 14 main
    ```

> 4. After making all the settings, you can use the following command to check the configurations:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Use the following command to check the configuration:
```

    ```
    sudo -u postgres pgbackrest --stanza=db-primary check
    ```

## Performing backups

- To start a full backup for db-primary, use this command:
    ```
    sudo -u postgres pgbackrest --stanza=db-primary --type=full backup
    ```

- To start a differential backup for db-primary, use this command:
    ```
    sudo -u postgres pgbackrest --stanza=db-primary --type=diff backup
    ```

- To start an incremental backup for db-primary, use this command:
    ```
    sudo -u postgres pgbackrest --stanza=db-primary --type=incr backup
    ```

> - To view a list of all backups available of db-primary, use the command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- To view a list of all backups available of db-primary, use this command:
```

    ```
    sudo -u postgres pgbackrest --stanza=db-primary info
    ```

<Message type="note">

> If there are no backup exists for a stanza, the backup type will be set to full.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If there are no existing backups for a stanza, the backup type will be set to full.
```

</Message>

## Restoring from backups

- To restore from backup to the same location on the DB server, you can start the restore process with the following command:
    ```
    sudo -u postgres pgbackrest --stanza=db-primary restore
    ```

> - To restore from backup to the same location on the DB server and a specified time, you can start the restore process with the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- To restore from backup to the same location on the DB server and at a specified time, you can start the restore process with the following command:
```

    ```
    sudo -u postgres pgbackrest --stanza=db-primary --type=time --target="2022-06-02 17:05:23" restore
    ```

> - To restore from backup to the desired location on the DB server, you can start the restore process with the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- To restore from backup to a desired location on the DB server, you can start the restore process with the following command:
```

    ```
    sudo -u postgres pgbackrest --stanza=db-primary --reset-pg1-host --pg1-path=/var/lib/pgsql/14/restored restore
    ```

<Message type="tip">

A full restore can take a long time on large databases. If the connection is lost, the restore process may be interrupted. For this reason, running the restore command in 'screen' or 'tmux' will increase reliability.

</Message>

<Message type="note">

> If only missing files need to be added, you can use the "--delta" parameter. This parameter restores only missing files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If only missing files need to be added, you can use the `--delta` parameter. This parameter restores only missing files.
```

</Message>

## Automatizing backups

> If it is desired to take backups in a certain time interval, it can be added to the cron as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to back up at certain time intervals, you can add this to the cron:
```

1. Edit the crontab of the postgres user:
    ```
    crontab -u postgres -e
    ```

> 2. To run a full backup at 00:00 on every Wednesday and an incremental backup at 00:00 on every Saturday, add the following line to the crontab and save it:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Add the following line to the crontab and save it. This particular example runs a full backup at 00:00 on every Wednesday and an incremental backup at 00:00 on every Saturday:
```

    ```
    0 0 * * 3 /usr/bin/pgbackrest --stanza=db-primary --type=full backup
    0 0 * * 6 /usr/bin/pgbackrest --stanza=db-primary --type=incr backup
    ```

## Deleting old backups manually:

> - Just to keep the last full backup:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- To keep only the last full backup:
```

    ```
    sudo -u postgres pgbackrest --stanza=db-primary --repo1-retention-full=1 expire
    ```

> - Just to keep the last differantial backup:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- To keep only the last differential backup:
```
